let's talk about this fabulous world
that we live in and let's talk about how
we can make it a little bit better
because it seems like we're having a
little bit of trouble making it a little
bit better these days you know from the
dawn of time we've looked at the Stars
and we've said where am I and what does
it mean we've asked other really
important questions of ourselves
questions like I don't know why are my
crops failing why are rivers rising why
did it why did a Puma eat my kid this
morning why are armies marching and why
are very bad things happening to very
good people it is a fabulous world that
we have always had very big challenges
there's a lot of nature and a lot of
human nature to overcome but throughout
our history we've always reverted to one
thing we do it quite well we like to
make tools we're very good at making
tools you know maybe I I don't know
maybe I want to track the Sun I want to
grow some crops maybe I would like to
you know turn it into something tasty
write it down into a recipe it's such a
good recipe I want to sell it and buy
myself a big house make sure it's heated
as well or maybe I want to just have an
aspirin in a cocktail and fly away from
it all right these are all tools this is
our technology and friends you heard it
here first
whisky is a tool but there is a
different side of the toolbox we don't
usually think of these things as
invented and as tools but they are these
are the institutions that populate our
lives all of the civic organizations all
of our governments all of our religious
traditions all of the businesses that
make the technology that we love and
drives us nuts they were all invented as
well they're all designed and our tools
have a ton of power not good not bad but
both you know you can look here in the
United States and we can think of that
as a design tool as well and the design
documents are things that we know as the
Bill of Rights and the Constitution and
this intention goes into our larger
conversation of our tools and making
sure
they do good things for us and aid to
the common good because they have this
power you can capture fire and invite
the neighbors over for a bowl of chili
or you might want to lob some flaming
arrows at them capture an atom you could
pop you know power a city or if you
choose to you could wipe it off the map
you can understand the human genome and
start solving some some problems around
disease or you can pervert it and create
mechanized death all versions of our
tools because they're powerful
we need to purpose them for the common
good we need to make them regulated what
is regulation more than writ large
something accountable something
accountable to the common good but we've
been having some problems about this
accountable conversation because we've
been thinking in a very narrow way we
usually think of regulation as something
like this a law but there's a problem
thinking about regulation is only a law
first of all it's made in a place like
this this is a temple of conflict
populated by professionally pissed off
people now think about it no seriously
it is it's a great design but it is an
adversarial design you know committee
hearings party identification issue
identification it's actually a great
design when the issue at hand is a
policy I'm black you're white well
debate will get to grey but too
infrequently that's what it looks like
too often it's about politics and this
is how that design works in politics
you're black I'm white you have to be
blacker I have to be whiter and we get
killed if we even look grey that's a
problem we can't produce very good laws
right now but guess what there's a
bigger issue at hand you see we live in
a world that looks like a whole world
right now we have globalized and laws
are products of physical political
jurisdictions think of the glue the
financial crisis money of the technology
of money flowed from New York to London
to Tokyo and back but the tool of law
did not
our technology outstripped an
institution we don't have a global
regulatory framework around finances we
have other kinds of regulation though
and we always have quite frankly in this
case we have global cooperation with
central banks but we have always
populated ourselves with other kinds of
regulation whether it is things like
table manners or rules of the road
Accords religious tradition contracts
there's lots of ways that we regulate
our world what if we looked at
regulation is something of habit what if
it was just stuff that we did I always
describe habit as doing something that
you're not told to do and habits live in
habitats what if we looked at regulation
as building habitats let me give you an
example I'm 46 that whom I was raised in
tolerance was not an issue it was a
value now for my parents it was an issue
it was a political issue there were
marches there were murders there was a
lot of bad thing but for bad things but
for the world I was raised in in my home
it really wasn't about laws of Tolerance
I had something very powerful in the
house I had the Jackson 5
I had the Jackson 5 in there very funky
music and they're even funkier clothes I
also had these furry friends I had
Sesame Street and Sesame Street told me
that people of color and women in my
society could be beautiful and funny and
productive in a great part of my world
and I'm not arguing that laws like the
Voting Rights Act of the night of 1964
are unimportant incredibly important
it's just that the culture the habits
that we built around that law are the
reason why in my lifetime we've gone
from I have a dream to I have this guy
as my president we did something that
was a very big deal because we raised an
entire generation to think it wasn't a
big deal and when I look at what's
happening right now with environmental
stewardship I see the same thing again
it's not that laws
are unimportant it's just that sexy
electric sports cars are as well when
green becomes luxury we know we are
acculturating things when green becomes
fashion we know that we are changing our
culture as well even something as
mundane as laundry detergent gets pretty
darn exciting when you think about how
we are integrating green as a built-in
designed value into the world around us
to complement the laws that we are
discussing so that's how we've done it
that's how we're doing it right now
here's how we could do it in the future
as well think of health care you can't
pass a law that will make you healthy in
fact what happened last year
in Congress wasn't so much health care
reform as it was access to sick care
reform and why was that important
because we have built a habitat we have
built a habitat that seems to value two
ideas one is get sick and will fix you
and the other is for some reason we
think that death is optional but that's
where we spend our money but what if we
treated you like you weren't born broken
let's keep you that way wouldn't that
truly be health care reform if we did
that we'd start building more of this
into our daily diets we'd start thinking
about this as more of a daily part of
our mobility and look who's even giving
up the cookies that last part is pretty
important because if we are going to
create cultures we're going to create
habits and habitats we better start
playing with things like intrinsic
motivation we better get pretty serious
about having fun because when I tell my
girls to run around the park that's
different than run around the park now
if they're on the playground
I can't get them off if I ask them to do
a lap I get one and many one lap many
complaints and yet all I care about is
the outcome of movement in their lives
if we were more interested
in the public policy of outcomes rather
than output then we would start thinking
about building cultures and habits and
habitats and we could have some fun
making the world better you know no one
does well in a bad neighborhood no
business does well in a bad neighborhood
no government does well in a bad
neighborhood
no church no mas no synagogue no
nonprofit does well in a bad
neighborhood the problem is is that
we've been thinking about building this
neighborhood with one tool and do we
swing it hard or do we swing it softly
do we swing it from the left or from the
right if you had a remodeling project
would you ever walk up to it and say
okay what needs hammering but that seems
to be how we're looking at our world
right now when we could be looking at
our world as a hammer in a sea of other
tools we have never had so many tools at
our disposal we have never had so much
technology and so many institutional
forms to go at creating a better world
and we can do that by using all those
tools integrating common good values
into the products and the services that
we use every day having fun doing it and
then once again we might look at those
stars and we might say to ourselves
aren't they beautiful and aren't we
lucky to be here tonight together thank
you